Describe now as a junior.
Okay, junior.
First time to really... Describe your routine.
First sergeant, the one who's really in charge of getting the fish in shape, teaching them.
To me, my job was to teach them about being an Aggie and the traditions.
The Jody's, the marching, how to keep their room.
And I had a lot of great classmates, of course, that held other positions that
like a right arm to me, but it was a real position of leadership, I would say, and the one I enjoyed the most.
I'd rather have been first sergeant than to be on course staff.
I mean, I was just more of the people person rather than a staff person, and so, again, I could yell at people, I could get on to them, I could chew them out, make them feel
You know, like they weren't worth anything.
You didn't build them up.
But it wasn't my nature to be that way, in essence.
But that's the way I became and worked with them and didn't back down from that.
Real strong about doing what was right.
Just being Aggie would make us proud.
And so calling the Jody's, the formations, I loved all of that part of it.
The aspect of that was my favorite part.
of being a junior and first sergeant.
Did you have any self-imposed guidelines about behavior in your outfit, about paddles and anything else?
No, I've never, not as far as hazing goes.
I didn't try to restrict that or I trusted the people that I
that I had grown up with there in two years to do what was right.
And know that their intentions were really for that other person's good.
I never had a problem with that.
Right now, in terms of routine, did you have to get up earlier and so forth?
Every formation, of course.
You have to be there.
You're the one that's got to get them lined up, ready to go for when the commander comes out.
to march him to chow and he just comes out the last minute and everything's supposed to be taken care of.
So, as first sergeant, that's kind of the top kick of the outfit as far as being responsible for everything being done right and keeping up with their grades and all that kind of stuff was a big part of it.
And I enjoyed that.
I enjoyed that one-on-one and leading people.
All right, then, when did a Yale leader have to go do some other things?
Yes, well, a lot.
And if it was a ball game, like, or court trips or something, I would always march with the outfield and call the Jodeys and the Yales on the way to the cow field and enjoyed that.
So I'd go to march around Kyle Field with the outfit and then run under the Kyle Field Stadium into a little locker room area and have my whites there for my yellow to put that on and then go back out and get rev and start the... Where did y'all get your whites?
Did you buy them?
Lupo's.
Lupo's?
Have any idea what they cost?
I do not, and old Army Lou was good about even helping Yale leaders a lot, and so, you know, he might give us one of our uniforms every once in a while.
We just had a couple of sets is all we had, and we wore white tennis shoes then.
They wear maroon now, but back then we wore white.
Everybody had the same thing on, even the civilian.
uh yell leader too and uh and so it's short hold up our sleeves yeah do you remember any games in which it was really cold oh yes yes there were some uh i can't remember who we were playing but i know even uh up in arkansas it could get pretty cold up there at one of those razorback games but but we even in the coldest
weather or raining, we wouldn't wear a yellow sweater.
We had yellow sweater, but we didn't wear them while we were on the field.
Now, was it okay when you were not on the field to come up and put a coat on?
We never did.
Is that right?
I don't know if it was okay or not, but we just never did.
Were there any yells used then that we don't use now that you can think of?
No, but we did a lot more.
We yelled a lot more often than they do now.
The same yells, but former Spite was done several times during a ball game.
And basketball games, which they might, it seems to me like they just do three or four yells now.
It's really aggravating to me some of that.
That's a different story.
To every football game and every basketball game.
How did y'all get to the out-of-town games?
Okay, and I'll say to every footballer, let me back up there.
Back then, we didn't have the money they do now or the support that they have from other organizations helping them out.
But we would go to every, of course, definitely every home game and every Southwest Conference game.
The brothers, and we'd go to LSU, and just have to get there the best way we could.
But our senior year, I might jump in too far ahead, we went to USC.
But only two of us got to go, just because of Lincoln and the Woodrow Poo, rolled with the ball team.
But for these other out-of-town games,
You got there on your own.
That's right.
How'd you get in the stadium?
Well, we didn't have passes or anything.
We'd just, white uniform, we'd just tell them.
We'd yell at her.
We never seemed to have a... No trouble.
Nobody ever stopped us.
Surely there must have been some good, unique stories.
Well... Share some of those.
Okay, okay.
Well, I guess one of them that got some notoriety.
We were...
When we played Arkansas, one of them was a home game against Arkansas back in those days, like I say, in all my four years, we didn't win as many games as they do in one year now, as far as outscoring the opponents, but we were playing Arkansas here, and they were one of the top ranked teams in the country back in those days, and we just had 8,000 students, and didn't have all the double decking and all, but we stopped the Arkansas game for about 10 minutes because
of the crowd being so loud, and it was unbelievably loud.
I mean, it was, and the refs had to come over and finally threaten us and all, and we got several letters to the editor on that.
I received several
calls or letters from old ags about that wasn't the best thing to do at the time, but Rudder, he never complained to me.
I know he got a lot of complaints, and I still have a letter that he wrote me regarding that, but it wasn't like he was chewing me out.
He was just relaying to me what they had said and that we shouldn't
We should have cut it off sooner or something of that nature.
Any good stories you remember about when you got thrown in the fish pond?
Okay, yes.
Just typical stuff of how they would chase you down and tackle it just like they do now and carry you all the way over and they'd be gouging you all the way and throw you in.
I guess the funniest thing would be different from some of the stories you've heard is that
My senior year, we never won a home game.
Never won a home game, so we never got thrown in the fish pond my senior year, except we played SMU at Dallas in the Cotton Bowl, and that was the only game we won all year.
At the game, two of my friends that lived across the railroad track from me in New Boston, two girls,
but they were at the game sitting at two different places down the aisle.
And so in the Dallas Morning News the next day they told this story because after the score I would leap over the rail, run up 23 flights of stairs, and I'd kiss both of them.
And so the next day in the paper there was a big story about the jail leader going up two flights and kissing two girls.
But we came back home
Like I say, on Tuesday nights back in those days, we had yell practice after chow, great time.
Well, after yell practice on that Tuesday night, all the fish got me, got the yell eaters and took us to the fish pond and threw us in then with our senior boots on and everything.
So we were in uniform and so that was kind of a different story, a different slant on, we, of course it was my,
junior year here when we were playing the Sips and they were the number one team in the nation and we just won two or three games and we were on Turkey Day and we were outscoring.
They were supposed to beat us 30, 40 points, I mean, and we were ahead of them 13 to nine.
And we intercepted the ball and fumbled, they got it back, they threw a ball in the end zone, the gym,
Winnenberg, Jim Winnenberg, intercepted, caught, turned around, fell down, and scooted out of the end zone.
And the refs caught him out of bounds, and every replay and every photo showed he was two or three yards in bounds.
It was Hank Foberg, our coach, called it the most injustice that any team he'd ever been involved with.
It was
I mean, we, that would have sensed if we would have won the ball game.
They went on down, because of that call, went on and scored with about a minute to go and went up 15 to 13, and the headlines in the paper the next day said, Ags 13, Sips 9, refs 6.
And, but more than that, and which some of these young Ags don't understand why, that we,
hate is a strong word, but I'd have to say why we hate the T-Sips so, and I've got a lot of Longhorn friends, and not every individual, but I'm saying the old wall philosophy of that school is different than Texas A&M, and we don't like it, and one of the things that ingrained that in my mind was after that game, as Aggies always do, when we get outscored, we were having our yell practice, and I mean, tears were streaming down my eyes, because I mean, we had beat the national champs in reality,
And these Longhorns were walking on the track between me and the students.
And just a foot away, I'll never forget this guy and his date, just stopped right in front of me while we were doing the yells, singing the war hymn, and hooking horns right in my face, and just laughing out loud at us.
My son said, Dad, why didn't you call the cadets out of the stands and bought me?
And that might be one of my biggest regrets of all time.
In all honesty, of course we didn't.
But that just ingrained some of that feeling that we have about the difference in the way Aggies treat people and the way Longhorns treat people.
All right, and I think it's that weekend...
Just before that weekend, where were you when you heard the news of what had happened in Dallas?
Okay.
I was in Duncan.
It was at lunch.
And Steve Reeves, one of my buddies, came up and told me that he had just heard it.
We went back to the dorm.
I called all the...
that was when I was a junior, called all of the outfit together and just talked to them about the situation.
A lot of people, a lot of cadets were crying and it was a tough time.
Whether you liked Kennedy or not was beside the point.
He was still president.
It was a terrible situation.
So yeah, that's one of those places you'll always remember, and I was in Duncan Best Hall.
All right, Bonfire was canceled.
That's right.
Built, ready to go, pretty much.
And on Bonfire, describe back in your student days, how long did everybody work on Bonfire?
Well, the leaders of bonfire back in those days, the head leader was the bonfire chief.
It wasn't the red pox and stuff like that back in those days.
But each different area had a supervisor.
There was usually a core outfit.
One outfit became specialist in the center pole.
Another outfit became specialist in the cut area.
And so you had different assignments that you
had passed on, word had been passed on about how to do these different things in an expert way and why to do it and how to do it.
And that lasted for 90 plus years, I guess, or something in that neighborhood, a long time.
And we would get to the cut the best way we could.
Everybody would be involved, of course.
And we had some civilians there because the Corps was only compulsory two years.
and they were involved in it.
But now, about when did the cutting start?
I would say it seems to me like it even started in September.
It was early on.
Pre-planning, even the year before those in charge were planning, so it was a year-long planning situation, but as far as actual working physically, working on it,
You know, it was at least two, two and a half, maybe even three months from the beginning of school.
Part of it, you started having meetings about it even then.
Do you remember, during your years, do you remember any serious injuries?
No.
No, I do not.
There were guys that maybe, you know, broke on or put in the hospital.
In fact, I remember my senior, when I was a head yell eater, I did not even...
remember this until a guy reminded me of it.
One of the cadets had been hurt, and I didn't know him from Adam, but I was at Olsen Field at a baseball game about five years ago, and this guy comes up to me and he says, I know you don't remember me, but I was a fish when you were the head jail eater.
He said, I got hurt at Bonfire, and was in the hospital, and
he said one of the biggest events of my entire time at amem was when you came to visit me and and i just said to myself i said well that must be one of the times i was listening to jesus and doing what he wanted instead of what frank cox wanted it was a real highlight for him to come up and
and say that, but sure, there were cuts and bruises and bumps and maybe some broken bones, but no injury.
It was totally organized.
It wasn't a game at all.
They were totally focused back then.
I'm not knocking anybody or anything, but I'll say this.
There wasn't anybody out there that was, hey, let me take you on a buggy ride and a Six Flags event and lose focus.
That's what that was about.
It was a job, and it wasn't a show off time.
And Bonfire was on Duncan?
That's right.
It was on the back end.
And it was a... It was in a pole and an outhouse.
No, but in terms of style.
The teepee style.
Yeah, it wasn't... It wasn't here.
No, it wasn't a straight out.
I don't know when that happened.
There was after I left, but we were...
the organization of it, and passing on the information, and this is what you do, and this is why you do it, and a manual of it, and how to do it.
It wasn't, none of it was taken lightly, and it was, we might not have had sophisticated engineering drawings, but everybody knew their job and did it.
I don't remember drinking going on.
It could have been, it just might have been because I didn't, and I didn't look for that stuff.
I don't remember drinking.
Somebody else might can tell you different, but,
I wasn't aware of any alcohol during the building of it and that type of stuff.
It was serious business and everybody took their job seriously and it was quite a feat.
It was one of the best times of my life.
to be involved in something like that.
All right, now your junior year when bonfire is canceled, the stack was already up or partly up?
It was pretty much, I think it was partly up.
It was pretty close, best I remember.
I'm trying to think back.
Most of the time, our outfit was mostly responsible for the cut area.
Squadron 2 was never involved with the stack area.
And so we were out in the woods most of the time.
And I can't remember, to tell you the truth, how far along it was.
I bet there's some pictures.
Do you have any idea?
Do you remember what happened to those logs?
Were they, they were then hauled?
They were just, they were all just laying there and how they, they got rid of them.
I do not remember that the Corps was involved in that.
I don't remember us going out and doing that.
We might have, and my memories just slipped me, but whether a company was hired to haul them off, I'm not for sure.
Back to being a Yale leader.
Did you have a favorite Yale?
Well, I like former spy.
I like military.
What about your least favorite?
Did you have a least favorite?
Lizzie, I guess, I think it was the name of it.
Lizzie.
And we didn't
do that much.
That's the one with the high voice.
Now wasn't there a special yell for each Southwest Conference opponent then?
Was there a Baylor yell?
I do not remember that.
Is that right?
Okay.
Maybe somebody else can tell you.
I don't remember us doing it as yell eaters.
They might have come out of the stands.
Are there any yells now that we do that were not done when you were yelled?
Yes, there have been some changes.
One of the ones that I'm being honest about it that aggravates me the most is the yell that we seem to do more than any other is beat the hell out of whoever we have to be playing and the old arm signal for that.
which I understand started around 1969 or something, if I'm not mistaken.
It was after my time, and I was not pleased when I saw that, and it has become so predominant.
I just, again, it might be going back to my Christian faith that you can't beat the hell out of anybody to begin with, so here we are saying something that you can't even do, and it's just not the Aggie spirit to me.
I do not like that at all.
Again, it's putting more focus on them, and it's giving somebody else something to say about us that,
that anybody can say that, but Aggies, every one of our yells are different.
They're not high schoolers.
No other schools has yells like we do.
For us to do that, I really hate that.
And the other one that doesn't bother me, it's kind of cute, and if it was original, I don't know whether it came from them watching some other school on TV, but sit down bus driver at the basketball games mostly is where that's done.
It's kind of cute, and I don't really mind that too much.
And that's kind of taken hold.
I want to add for an editorial note.
Yes.
One of the Yale leaders, when they beat the hell out of whomever Yale was getting started, one of the Yale leaders was in one of my classes.
And I called him after class, called him aside, and told him that the hand signal, that that is a vulgar gesture in much of the world, and he wasn't aware of it.
And I tried to tell him that that would not be well respected anywhere else.
Then one that I heard about indirectly was one of the first years we did that, we went up and played basketball against Oral Roberts University in Tulsa.
And one of the L leaders jumped down to the floor and right in front of the man for whom that school is named,
did that gesture and yelled out, beat the hell out of Oral Roberts, and that Mr. Roberts did not like that at all.
I've never heard that, but I don't blame him.
All right, during all of your Yell Eater experiences, what are some of the happiest moments and any sad moments that you remember being a Yell Eater?
Well, I guess the sad moment was the one I mentioned a while ago about the T-sip game here.
Yeah.
But everyone was always really nice.
When you were a Yale leader, you were also on the Southwest Conference Sportsmanship Committee.
And I know people say we're prejudiced, but I still think Aggies treat their opponents better than anyone.
We're fiercely loyal to our school, and unashamedly so.
But I've never really seen Aggies do some of the things that I've seen at other schools, where they slice your tires and really are vulgar and irvery on a personal one-on-one basis.
at LSU ball games, they threw beer cans at us at the game while we're walking out on the field.
I mean, they're throwing beer cans at us.
At Texas, my junior year at basketball, we went down to play the Longhorns and that's the days we had Benny Lennox who was a great basketball player and one of the best ever and we were about to win the Southwest Conference but we were
We were leading Texas all the way, and they had to take Benny Lennox out with about three minutes to go, Coach Shelby Metcalf did, to rest him, and the Sips caught up and went ahead of us.
He put Lennox back in, and he hit three from the top of the circle.
They would have been three corners a day.
He takes the ball all the way down the court, pops the net three times, wind up winning the game.
There were about 300 Aggies there at the game.
We go out on the court, and even during the game,
the Longhorn fans were throwing cups of ice at us.
But after the game, we were congratulating our players, but all the Longhorn fans came out also, and we were lined up down the court about a foot apart, and finally somebody hit somebody else, and the melee breaks out, and have a big fight.
One of my freshmen came up to me, and he had a slash about four inches long on his cheek, where somebody hit him with some brass nuts, and it was just gassed open, bleeding.
and they had to play the National Anthem.
Dust was coming up out of the floor from the fight, and they were playing the National Anthem, trying to get everybody to stop.
It finally stopped, but the next day in the paper in Austin, it said that A&M Gladiators, Storm, Gregory Jim, or something, they tried to blame it on us.
We had 300, they had 7,000, and of course it was the Aggies' fault, you know.
But it was such a blessed experience, my whole experience really,
I can't complain about anything as far as being a Yale leader.
I met a lot of great people, and cheerleaders from other schools, they were always nice.
Never had a problem there.
I happened to have dated for a couple of years an Arkansas cheerleader that was from Texarkana back in my hometown, and she was a cheerleader in Arkansas, and I was a Yale leader at A&M.
When Arkansas came down to play us,
and we were already out on the track and all the corps was in the stands and she comes in through the tunnel there with the rest of the cheerleaders and walks right in front of the corps and I go up and hug her and just kiss her on the cheek and of course the corps goes wild about it.
She was really a cute, sweet girl.
And a great time.
So that was a fun time.
It was a good time.
Getting to know the athletes and having a oneness with them.
Who were some of your favorites?
Well, in basketball, Benny Lennox and John Beasley.
I was here at a great time.
And Randy Mattson even played basketball.
Davey Johnson, who later became the coach of the World Series champions in the Mets, and were some of the most famous that we knew, and Jerry Nichols, and all those great, they were great guys.
They were Aggies, too.
They knew the war hymn.
I can tell you this, athletes in those days knew the war hymn, they knew the spirit, they were Aggies.
It's one of my pet peeves today to go to a basketball game, and not one of them knows.
What about working with Coach Shelby Metcalf?
What a joy, and still he is.
Every time I see him, I remember always funny and pleasant, always kind to me and to Yale leaders, always supportive.
And even through the years, even after that time, my son went to some basketball camps down here, and
And seeing him even now, and even when he was treated like he was, when he was dismissed from A&M, which was one of the tragedies, that and Gene Stallings, two of my pet peeves of what Aggies have done to Aggies.
But I wrote a letter to the editor regarding that situation, and he always mentions that to me and how much he appreciated my comments.
So he's a true Aggie.
He didn't go to A&M, but I always say that there are a lot of students at A&M that aren't Aggies.
And there are also a lot of Aggies who weren't ever students at A&M, but have that Aggie spirit and heart and the ethics and accountability and trust and support that is really what Aggies are all about.
And, you know, just like yourself, you didn't go to A&M, right?
But what better ambassador, who cares?
And what you're doing, I really appreciate.
You're taking the time and effort to do this and all the things you've done over the years.
Thank you.
We don't take it lightly.
You're what A&M and Aggieland and being an Aggie is all about.
As you're getting ready to be a senior, do you run for head yell leader or do you just... Actually, you do.
Ted Hopgood, who's the current commandant of Texas A&M, he was one of my classmates.
He was the other junior yell leader.
And like I tell everybody, back in those days, to be a yell eater, all you had to be doing was passing and not have a prisoner in there.
You didn't have to be a hunk and strong and good looking like they are today, you know, or an entertainer.
So we didn't do all the campaigning and the posters and all.
And we both felt like, well, they know us by now.
They've seen us both and we'll just let them decide.
pretty much what it was done.
There was no campaigning at all that I remember, and just have it your way.
All right, so there are three seniors, one of whom is a civilian.
Yes, sir.
And the other two are running, and then the one that gets the most votes is the head yelling?
That's the way it's always been that I know of until just a couple of years ago.
Do you remember what the percentage was?
Well...
I do not.
I've got that bat.
Was there any, when you learned you'd been head yellator, did your buddies?
Oh yeah, they really, especially for my outfit,
Pretty much did the same thing they did when I was a junior.
Okay.
And through that same routine again.
Back in those days, when you were head yell eater, you could not be the commander of your outfit.
Now, usually the first sergeant becomes commander their senior year.
And I love the outfit.
I'm not a staff person.
And it was really hard on me.
I begged them to let me do both.
I wanted to be the commander of Squadron 2, but back in those days, they wouldn't let you.
And so I chose to be head yell leader, and the head yell leader was on core staff.
And who was core commander?
Neil Keltner, our senior year, was core commander, and Terry Odson was the executive, and great people, David Fox.
And you're also in the RVs?
Yes.
And as an RV, you went to Governor's Inauguration and to New Orleans?
Now, my senior year, I was not in the RVs.
RVs is normally a junior outfit, except for the few that desire to be some officers in the RVs.
So my senior year, I didn't go out for any of those positions.
So I did go to Mardi Gras.
honor guard for King Rex at Mardi Gras, and that was quite an experience for a country boy.
I tell you, I saw some things I never thought I'd see.
How did y'all get over there?
Just had to.
On your own?
On your own.
No help at all.
I don't remember any kind of financial help ever in yellow eating or RVs.
Did you buy your RV uniform, or are they passed on?
They were passed on.
I'm almost positive of that.
Okay.
In fact, my senior boots that I bought were from a guy that had been in the Corps a couple of years before.
Back then, a lot of the guys didn't keep their senior boots like everybody does now.
Do you remember what they cost?
It was cheaper.
I think it was $90.
Where'd you get them?
I don't want to say $90.
I got them from a guy that was about myself.
No, where'd you get the money?
Oh, I'm sure from my parents, to tell you the truth, I imagine, at that time, because I surely didn't work, you know, at that time.
The time was just unbelievable.